Manuscript/Manuscript_Results.md, before:

Results
================
2021-08-20

## Results

### First session

The first search session returned a total of 27600 unique records,
specifically 12719 (71.6% of the total) records from the *EMBASE*
database, followed by 9546 (53.8%) from *Pubmed/Medline*, 3175 (17.9%)
from *Scopus*, 2100 (11.8%) from *Web of Science*, and 60 (0.34%) from
*IEEE* (Table 1). There were various degrees of overlapping with the
38.4% of records being present in more than one database and *EMBASE*
and *IEEE* being the databases with the higher uniqueness ratios. The
final dataset was composed by 17755 unique records.  
The first 250 records were manually labeled. Of these 43 (17.2%) were
labeled as positive, and 207 (82.8%) as negative.

| Session      | Source | Records | % over total | Source specific records | % over source total |
|:-------------|:-------|--------:|:-------------|------------------------:|:--------------------|
| Session1     | Total  |   17755 |              |                         |                     |
|              | Embase |   12719 | 71.6%        |                    6683 | 52.5%               |
|              | Pubmed |    9546 | 53.8%        |                    3457 | 36.2%               |
|              | Scopus |    3175 | 17.9%        |                     298 | 9.39%               |
|              | WOS    |    2100 | 11.8%        |                     473 | 22.5%               |
|              | IEEE   |      60 | 0.34%        |                      29 | 48.3%               |
| Session2     | Total  |   82579 |              |                         |                     |
|              | Embase |   48396 | 58.6%        |                   40826 | 84.4%               |
|              | Pubmed |   28811 | 34.9%        |                   18021 | 62.5%               |
|              | Scopus |   17070 | 20.7%        |                    4908 | 28.8%               |
|              | WOS    |   12956 | 15.7%        |                    2817 | 21.7%               |
|              | IEEE   |      61 | 0.074%       |                      22 | 36.1%               |
| All Sessions | Total  |   98371 |              |                         |                     |
|              | Embase |   59604 | 60.6%        |                   46942 | 78.8%               |
|              | Pubmed |   37278 | 37.9%        |                   21371 | 57.3%               |
|              | Scopus |   19353 | 19.7%        |                    5181 | 26.8%               |
|              | WOS    |   14367 | 14.6%        |                    3175 | 22.1%               |
|              | IEEE   |     108 | 0.11%        |                      48 | 44.4%               |

Table 1. Distribution of retrieved records by source and session. For
each source it is reported the number of records, percentage over the
session total (after removing duplicates)’ and, number or records
specific for a source as absolute value and as percentage over the
source total. SAll session shows records after joining and deduplication
of the Session1 and Session2 dataset.

After the first manual classification, 7 automatic classification and
manual review rounds (CR) were performed (Table 2). It is possible to
observe how the number of records that required manual review dropped
fast between iterations, indicating that the engine was converging while
the uncertainties were resolved.  
This phenomenon is better depicted in figure 1 in the Suppl. Mat. S2. It
shows the mixture distribution of the predicted probabilities for each
record, specifically for the reviewed positive and negative records, and
for records that need manual review after the classification step: it
can be noticed how the distribution of the uncertain records shrinks
(they concentrate in a shorter probability range) and shifts toward the
negative zone as more positive matches are found and reviewed.
Accordingly (Table 2), the number of new positives found drops after the
first couple of iterations. As per default, the classification process
was stopped after four rounds with no new positive matches; a total
number of 101 positives were found over 766 manually reviewed records
(13.2% positivity rate).  

| Session              | Iteration         | Positives | Negatives | Total labelled (%) | Unlab. -&gt; y | Unlab. -&gt; n | Unlab. -&gt; \* | n -&gt; y | Changes | N. features |
|:---------------------|:------------------|----------:|----------:|:-------------------|---------------:|---------------:|----------------:|----------:|--------:|------------:|
| Session1 (n = 17755) | Initial labelling |        43 |       207 | 250 (1.41%)        |             43 |            207 |               0 |         0 |     250 |        2289 |
|                      | 1                 |        93 |       529 | 622 (3.5%)         |             50 |            322 |               0 |         0 |     372 |        2289 |
|                      | 2                 |       100 |       614 | 714 (4.02%)        |              6 |             86 |               0 |         1 |      93 |        3750 |
|                      | 3                 |       101 |       625 | 726 (4.09%)        |              1 |             11 |               0 |         0 |      12 |        3834 |
|                      | 4                 |       101 |       648 | 749 (4.22%)        |              0 |             23 |               0 |         0 |      23 |        3856 |
|                      | 5                 |       101 |       651 | 752 (4.24%)        |              0 |              3 |               0 |         0 |       3 |        3856 |
|                      | 6                 |       101 |       660 | 761 (4.29%)        |              0 |              9 |               0 |         0 |       9 |        3856 |
|                      | 7                 |       101 |       665 | 766 (4.31%)        |              0 |              5 |               0 |         0 |       5 |        3856 |
| Session2 (n = 98371) | 1                 |       106 |       934 | 1040 (1.06%)       |              5 |            270 |             998 |         0 |    1273 |        4729 |
|                      | 2                 |       107 |      1123 | 1230 (1.25%)       |              1 |            189 |               0 |         0 |     190 |        4729 |
|                      | 3                 |       107 |      1176 | 1283 (1.3%)        |              0 |             53 |               0 |         0 |      53 |        4733 |
|                      | 4                 |       107 |      1200 | 1307 (1.33%)       |              0 |             24 |               0 |         0 |      24 |        4729 |
|                      | 5                 |       107 |      1209 | 1316 (1.34%)       |              0 |              9 |               0 |         0 |       9 |        4729 |
|                      | 6                 |       107 |      1226 | 1333 (1.36%)       |              0 |             17 |               0 |         0 |      17 |        4729 |

Table 2. Results of the automatic classifaction and manual review
rounds. For each iteration, the cumulative number of positives and
negative records and their sum (Total labelled) and percentage over
total are shown. Also, the number of changes after review and their
description is reported. “Unlab.” indicates unlabelled records marked
for review. For each Iteration, also the number of features used by the
engine is reported. The first row reports the results of the initial
manual labelling of records, which acted as input for the automatic
classification in Iteration 1. In Session2, the engine uses the labels
at the end of Session1 to classify the newly added records.

By evaluating how often the BART algorithm decided to use a term for
classification, it is possible to list a subset of the variables most
relevant for the classification of the documents: Patient Transport
(Keyword): 61.2 \[21.3\], Transfer (Abstract): 57 \[15.4\], Network
(Title): 56.5 \[14.2\], Network & Patient (Abstract): 54.2 \[15.2\],
Donker T (Author): 53.5 \[16.5\], Worker (Abstract): 50 \[-1.21\],
Hospitals (Keyword): 49.8 \[16.5\], Movement (Abstract): 47.8 \[15\],
Spread (Title): 46.6 \[12.1\], Facility (Abstract): 45 \[14.8\], Orange
County (Keyword): 44.3 \[17.2\], Conduct (Abstract): 42.6 \[-2.57\],
Patient (Abstract): 42 \[7.23\], Perform (Abstract): 41.9 \[-2.55\],
Hospital (Title): 39 \[12.5\]. In parenthesis, it is reported the part
of the record in which the term was used, while the numeric values
indicate respectively the rate of posterior trees (over 10000 trees) in
which a term was used, and the number of standard errors of the
association between a term and the probability of a positive match
according to a simple logistic linear model (see methods). The “&”
indicates that two terms are present together in a document but not
close to each other.  
The engine was able to pick up the central concept of the research
(i.e., “patient transport” or “transfer” through a “network” of
“facility”ies that facilitates the “spread” of infections) and even one
of the authors of the current study (Donker T.) or the region of
interest (“Orange County”) of another research group active on the
topic. It is interesting to see that some terms were considered highly
relevant (e.g., “Worker” in 6th position out of more than 3800 terms
considered) although in a simpler linear model, their effect would be
hardly significant (statistic: -1.21 s.e.), and this highlight the extra
predictive power brought by a highly non-linear model.  
A more extensive set of terms is presented in Table 1 of Supplemental
Material S2.

### Second session

The results of the first classification session were used to create a
second, data-driven query with the purpose of performing a more
large-spectrum search to find records which may have escape the first
search session. The resulting query was the following:  

*(((Donker T) NOT (bacterium isolate)) OR ((network patient) AND
(resistant staphylococcus aureus) NOT (monte carlo) NOT isolation) OR
(facility AND (network patient) AND regional NOT hospitals NOT increase
NOT (patient transport) NOT (control infection use)) OR ((patient
transport) NOT (Donker T) NOT worker) OR (hospitals AND (network
patient) NOT (patient transport) NOT regional NOT clinical) OR (facility
AND (network patient) NOT hospitals NOT (patient transport) NOT regional
NOT prevention NOT medical) OR ((healthcare facility) NOT (Donker T) NOT
worker NOT positive) OR (hospitals NOT (network patient) NOT medical NOT
environmental NOT outcome NOT global) OR ((network patient) NOT facility
NOT hospitals NOT (patient transport) NOT therapy NOT global)) AND
((antimicrobial resistance) OR (healthcare infection))*

The final piece *AND ((antimicrobial resistance) OR (healthcare
infection)* was added manually to better define the search domain, since
the algorithm was trained on documents that were all more or less
related to these topics.  
The generated query also provides a more nuanced understanding of the
engine’s internal classification logic, and this is helpful to spot
possible biases in the model.

The new search produced 107294 records (Table 1), of which 48396 (58.6%)
from the *EMBASE*, followed by 28811 (34.9%) from *Pubmed/Medline*,
17070 (20.7%) from *Scopus*, 12956 (15.7%) from *Web of Science*, and 61
(0.074%) from *IEEE*; compared to the first session, the relative weight
of *EMBASE* and *Pubmed* over the total was decreased, while the amount
of content specificity was greatly increased, as it was for *Scopus*.
After removal of duplicates, 82579 unique records were obtained. Once
joined with the session 1 records and duplicates removed, we obtained
98371 unique records, with just 1963 shared records between searches,
that is the 2%. The percentage of records shared by two or more source
dropped to 22%.

Six CR rounds were necessary to complete the second session
classification, with just 6 new positive found after reviewing 568 extra
records. It is interesting to notice that the first CR round required
the user to review a substantial number of records (1273), but just
labelling 275 of them (the canonical 250 plus 25 that were already
labelled during the framework performance evaluation) was sufficient to
drop this number to just 190 in the subsequent round. An evaluation of
the convergence (Figure 1, Suppl. Mat. S2) showed that, in addition to
the dynamics already observed in session 1 (shrinkage and negative
shift), a second mode appeared in the mixture distribution of the
records to be reviewed, centred in a highly positive zone. The
interpretation is that as the number of negative training records
increases, the engine gets more and more sceptical and asks to review
even some records labelled as positive in the initial labelling at the
beginning of session 1. This behaviour can be useful to spot
classification errors and inconsistencies. Considering both sessions,
1333 records were reviewed and 107 (8.03%) were found.

Again, the evaluation of the relative importance of the terms showed
that the engine was quite capable of internalizing the concepts behind
the research topic. A subsample of these terms is reported in Table 2 of
Suppl. Mat. S2.

### Hyperparameter selection and performance evaluation

<!-- develop more in the methods, the data is not a random sample and it's ordered so performance evaluation needs to take this into account. also note that hyperparameter selection is necessary since even if bayesian methods are robust, the other parameters outside it are not-->

As described in the methods, the selection of hyperparameters was
achieved via evaluation of sensibility and efficiency through a grid
search on a subset of 1200 completely manually labelled records
(validation set). The best set of parameters suggested an initial input
of 250 labelled records with 20x positive matches oversampling, an
averaged ensemble of 10 models, no bootstrapping and an uncertainty zone
defined by the 98% predictive interval. On the validation set, this
combination of parameters reached a sensitivity of 98.8% (81 / 82
positive matches found) and efficiency of 61.5% (462 / 1200 records
evaluated). A summary of the results of the grid search is reported in
Table 3 in Suppl. Mat. S2.

To evaluate the theoretical performance of the engine on the full
datasets (i.e., session 1 and session 2 data), a Bayesian logistic model
was trained on each session dataset to predict the label of the records
from the probability estimated by the engine (see methods for details).
The performance of such simple models is quite high (Bayesian R2: 98.1%
\[97.4%, 98.3%\] for session 1 and 98.2% \[97.6%, 98.3%\] for session 2)
and the median of their cumulative predictive distribution matches quite
well the actual number of cumulative positive records found. The
predicted cumulative number of positive matches was used to evaluate the
performance in the non-reviewed records (Table 3).  

Figure 1 shows the actual and predicted (from the logistic model)
cumulative number of positive matches, ordered by the initial simple
ordering query. As confirmed by the high efficiency values reported in
Table 3, it is striking how many more records would need to be evaluated
manually to find all positive matches without using a smart search tool.
The engine was able to find matches even close to the end of the
heuristically ordered list of records. Specifically, in session 1 we
observe an expected total number of positives of 101 \[101, 108\] for an
estimated sensitivity of 100% \[93.5%, 100%\] and efficiency of 95.7%
\[95.3%, 95.7%\].  
In session 2 we observed a drop in the expected sensitivity, especially
in the lower margin (97.3% \[73.8%, 100%\]), due to the fact that as the
number of records grows very large, even a small probability can
translate, in the worst scenario, into a relevant number of predicted
positive matches (145 in this case). To ascertain that no evident
positives were missed, we evaluated 100 more records between the
unreviewed ones with the highest median predicted probability produced
by the engine and found no actual positive matches.

| Indicator                          | Session 1              | Session 2              |
|:-----------------------------------|:-----------------------|:-----------------------|
| Tot. records                       | 17755                  | 98371                  |
| N. reviewed records (% over total) | 761 (4.29%)            | 1316 (1.34%)           |
| Expected efficiency \[PrI\]        | 95.7% \[95.3%, 95.7%\] | 98.6% \[98.2%, 98.7%\] |
| N. positive matches (% over total) | 101 (0.57%)            | 107 (0.11%)            |
| Predicted positive matches \[PrI\] | 101 \[101, 108\]       | 110 \[107, 145\]       |
| Expected sensitivity \[PrI\]       | 100% \[93.5%, 100%\]   | 97.3% \[73.8%, 100%\]  |
| Simple Model R^2 \[PrI\]           | 98.1% \[97.4%, 98.3%\] | 98.2% \[97.6%, 98.3%\] |

Table 3. Estimated performance summary. For each session, the number of
reviewed records and the percentage over the total provide an idea of
the work saved against manually labelling all retrieved records. Using a
simple logistic model to predict a positive match from the probabilities
outputted by the engine, the predictive distribution of the cumulative
number of positive matches was computed and used to estimate the
sensitivity and the efficiency of the engine for each session. Finally
the Bayesian R^2 of the logistic models is reported. \[PrI\] represents
the 90% Predictive Interval.

![Figure 1. 90% Predictive distribution of the cumulative number of
positive matches estimated by the logistic Bayesian models applied to
the engine output. The distribution is depicted by the shaded area. The
distribution is cut at the level of the observed cumulative distribution
of positive matches (red dots), since there cannot be false positive in
the dataset and predicted value below this line are not
possible.](Manuscript_Results_files/figure-gfm/performance%20plot-1.png)

Commit message:

results update
put info on the first query

Manuscript/Manuscript_Results.md, after:

Results
================
2021-08-30

## Results

### First session

The input search query was:  

*((model OR models OR modeling OR network OR networks) AND
(dissemination OR transmission OR spread OR diffusion) AND (nosocomial
OR hospital OR “long-term-care” OR “long term care” OR “longterm care”
OR “long-term care” OR “healthcare associated”) AND (infection OR
resistance OR resistant))*

including results between 2010 and 2020 (included). The automatic search
tools were used for MEDLINE, WOS and IEEE, while a manual search and
importation was necessary for EMBASE and SCOPUS. The search was repeated
manually also for MEDLINE, since, as reported in the methods, the web
interface may return different results from the API.

The first search session returned a total of 27600 unique records,
specifically 12719 (71.6% of the total) records from the *EMBASE*
database, followed by 9546 (53.8%) from *Pubmed/Medline*, 3175 (17.9%)
from *Scopus*, 2100 (11.8%) from *Web of Science*, and 60 (0.34%) from
*IEEE* (Table 1). There were various degrees of overlapping with the
38.4% of records being present in more than one database and *EMBASE*
and *IEEE* being the databases with the higher uniqueness ratios. The
final dataset was composed by 17755 unique records.  
The first 250 records were manually labeled. Of these 43 (17.2%) were
labeled as positive, and 207 (82.8%) as negative.

| Session      | Source | Records | % over total | Source specific records | % over source total |
|:-------------|:-------|--------:|:-------------|------------------------:|:--------------------|
| Session1     | Total  |   17755 |              |                         |                     |
|              | Embase |   12719 | 71.6%        |                    6683 | 52.5%               |
|              | Pubmed |    9546 | 53.8%        |                    3457 | 36.2%               |
|              | Scopus |    3175 | 17.9%        |                     298 | 9.39%               |
|              | WOS    |    2100 | 11.8%        |                     473 | 22.5%               |
|              | IEEE   |      60 | 0.34%        |                      29 | 48.3%               |
| Session2     | Total  |   82579 |              |                         |                     |
|              | Embase |   48396 | 58.6%        |                   40826 | 84.4%               |
|              | Pubmed |   28811 | 34.9%        |                   18021 | 62.5%               |
|              | Scopus |   17070 | 20.7%        |                    4908 | 28.8%               |
|              | WOS    |   12956 | 15.7%        |                    2817 | 21.7%               |
|              | IEEE   |      61 | 0.074%       |                      22 | 36.1%               |
| All Sessions | Total  |   98371 |              |                         |                     |
|              | Embase |   59604 | 60.6%        |                   46942 | 78.8%               |
|              | Pubmed |   37278 | 37.9%        |                   21371 | 57.3%               |
|              | Scopus |   19353 | 19.7%        |                    5181 | 26.8%               |
|              | WOS    |   14367 | 14.6%        |                    3175 | 22.1%               |
|              | IEEE   |     108 | 0.11%        |                      48 | 44.4%               |

Table 1. Distribution of retrieved records by source and session. For
each source it is reported the number of records, percentage over the
session total (after removing duplicates)’ and, number or records
specific for a source as absolute value and as percentage over the
source total. SAll session shows records after joining and deduplication
of the Session1 and Session2 dataset.

After the first manual classification, 7 automatic classification and
manual review rounds (CR) were performed (Table 2). It is possible to
observe how the number of records that required manual review dropped
fast between iterations, indicating that the engine was converging while
the uncertainties were resolved.  
This phenomenon is better depicted in figure 1 in the Suppl. Mat. S2. It
shows the mixture distribution of the predicted probabilities for each
record, specifically for the reviewed positive and negative records, and
for records that need manual review after the classification step: it
can be noticed how the distribution of the uncertain records shrinks
(they concentrate in a shorter probability range) and shifts toward the
negative zone as more positive matches are found and reviewed.
Accordingly (Table 2), the number of new positives found drops after the
first couple of iterations. As per default, the classification process
was stopped after four rounds with no new positive matches; a total
number of 101 positives were found over 766 manually reviewed records
(13.2% positivity rate).  

| Session              | Iteration         | Positives | Negatives | Total labelled (%) | Unlab. -&gt; y | Unlab. -&gt; n | Unlab. -&gt; \* | n -&gt; y | Changes | N. features |
|:---------------------|:------------------|----------:|----------:|:-------------------|---------------:|---------------:|----------------:|----------:|--------:|------------:|
| Session1 (n = 17755) | Initial labelling |        43 |       207 | 250 (1.41%)        |             43 |            207 |               0 |         0 |     250 |        2289 |
|                      | 1                 |        93 |       529 | 622 (3.5%)         |             50 |            322 |               0 |         0 |     372 |        2289 |
|                      | 2                 |       100 |       614 | 714 (4.02%)        |              6 |             86 |               0 |         1 |      93 |        3750 |
|                      | 3                 |       101 |       625 | 726 (4.09%)        |              1 |             11 |               0 |         0 |      12 |        3834 |
|                      | 4                 |       101 |       648 | 749 (4.22%)        |              0 |             23 |               0 |         0 |      23 |        3856 |
|                      | 5                 |       101 |       651 | 752 (4.24%)        |              0 |              3 |               0 |         0 |       3 |        3856 |
|                      | 6                 |       101 |       660 | 761 (4.29%)        |              0 |              9 |               0 |         0 |       9 |        3856 |
|                      | 7                 |       101 |       665 | 766 (4.31%)        |              0 |              5 |               0 |         0 |       5 |        3856 |
| Session2 (n = 98371) | 1                 |       106 |       934 | 1040 (1.06%)       |              5 |            270 |             998 |         0 |    1273 |        4729 |
|                      | 2                 |       107 |      1123 | 1230 (1.25%)       |              1 |            189 |               0 |         0 |     190 |        4729 |
|                      | 3                 |       107 |      1176 | 1283 (1.3%)        |              0 |             53 |               0 |         0 |      53 |        4733 |
|                      | 4                 |       107 |      1200 | 1307 (1.33%)       |              0 |             24 |               0 |         0 |      24 |        4729 |
|                      | 5                 |       107 |      1209 | 1316 (1.34%)       |              0 |              9 |               0 |         0 |       9 |        4729 |
|                      | 6                 |       107 |      1226 | 1333 (1.36%)       |              0 |             17 |               0 |         0 |      17 |        4729 |

Table 2. Results of the automatic classifaction and manual review
rounds. For each iteration, the cumulative number of positives and
negative records and their sum (Total labelled) and percentage over
total are shown. Also, the number of changes after review and their
description is reported. “Unlab.” indicates unlabelled records marked
for review. For each Iteration, also the number of features used by the
engine is reported. The first row reports the results of the initial
manual labelling of records, which acted as input for the automatic
classification in Iteration 1. In Session2, the engine uses the labels
at the end of Session1 to classify the newly added records.

By evaluating how often the BART algorithm decided to use a term for
classification, it is possible to list a subset of the variables most
relevant for the classification of the documents: Patient Transport
(Keyword): 61.2 \[21.3\], Transfer (Abstract): 57 \[15.4\], Network
(Title): 56.5 \[14.2\], Network & Patient (Abstract): 54.2 \[15.2\],
Donker T (Author): 53.5 \[16.5\], Worker (Abstract): 50 \[-1.21\],
Hospitals (Keyword): 49.8 \[16.5\], Movement (Abstract): 47.8 \[15\],
Spread (Title): 46.6 \[12.1\], Facility (Abstract): 45 \[14.8\], Orange
County (Keyword): 44.3 \[17.2\], Conduct (Abstract): 42.6 \[-2.57\],
Patient (Abstract): 42 \[7.23\], Perform (Abstract): 41.9 \[-2.55\],
Hospital (Title): 39 \[12.5\]. In parenthesis, it is reported the part
of the record in which the term was used, while the numeric values
indicate respectively the rate of posterior trees (over 10000 trees) in
which a term was used, and the number of standard errors of the
association between a term and the probability of a positive match
according to a simple logistic linear model (see methods). The “&”
indicates that two terms are present together in a document but not
close to each other.  
The engine was able to pick up the central concept of the research
(i.e., “patient transport” or “transfer” through a “network” of
“facility”ies that facilitates the “spread” of infections) and even one
of the authors of the current study (Donker T.) or the region of
interest (“Orange County”) of another research group active on the
topic. It is interesting to see that some terms were considered highly
relevant (e.g., “Worker” in 6th position out of more than 3800 terms
considered) although in a simpler linear model, their effect would be
hardly significant (statistic: -1.21 s.e.), and this highlight the extra
predictive power brought by a highly non-linear model.  
A more extensive set of terms is presented in Table 1 of Supplemental
Material S2.

### Second session

The results of the first classification session were used to create a
second, data-driven query with the purpose of performing a more
large-spectrum search to find records which may have escape the first
search session. The resulting query was the following:  

*(((Donker T) NOT (bacterium isolate)) OR ((network patient) AND
(resistant staphylococcus aureus) NOT (monte carlo) NOT isolation) OR
(facility AND (network patient) AND regional NOT hospitals NOT increase
NOT (patient transport) NOT (control infection use)) OR ((patient
transport) NOT (Donker T) NOT worker) OR (hospitals AND (network
patient) NOT (patient transport) NOT regional NOT clinical) OR (facility
AND (network patient) NOT hospitals NOT (patient transport) NOT regional
NOT prevention NOT medical) OR ((healthcare facility) NOT (Donker T) NOT
worker NOT positive) OR (hospitals NOT (network patient) NOT medical NOT
environmental NOT outcome NOT global) OR ((network patient) NOT facility
NOT hospitals NOT (patient transport) NOT therapy NOT global)) AND
((antimicrobial resistance) OR (healthcare infection))*

The final piece *AND ((antimicrobial resistance) OR (healthcare
infection)* was added manually to better define the search domain, since
the algorithm was trained on documents that were all more or less
related to these topics.  
The generated query also provides a more nuanced understanding of the
engine’s internal classification logic, and this is helpful to spot
possible biases in the model.  

The search was done with the same year filter and procedures of the
first session.  

The new search produced 107294 records (Table 1), of which 48396 (58.6%)
from the *EMBASE*, followed by 28811 (34.9%) from *Pubmed/Medline*,
17070 (20.7%) from *Scopus*, 12956 (15.7%) from *Web of Science*, and 61
(0.074%) from *IEEE*; compared to the first session, the relative weight
of *EMBASE* and *Pubmed* over the total was decreased, while the amount
of content specificity was greatly increased, as it was for *Scopus*.
After removal of duplicates, 82579 unique records were obtained. Once
joined with the session 1 records and duplicates removed, we obtained
98371 unique records, with just 1963 shared records between searches,
that is the 2%. The percentage of records shared by two or more source
dropped to 22%.

Six CR rounds were necessary to complete the second session
classification, with just 6 new positive found after reviewing 568 extra
records. It is interesting to notice that the first CR round required
the user to review a substantial number of records (1273), but just
labelling 275 of them (the canonical 250 plus 25 that were already
labelled during the framework performance evaluation) was sufficient to
drop this number to just 190 in the subsequent round. An evaluation of
the convergence (Figure 1, Suppl. Mat. S2) showed that, in addition to
the dynamics already observed in session 1 (shrinkage and negative
shift), a second mode appeared in the mixture distribution of the
records to be reviewed, centred in a highly positive zone. The
interpretation is that as the number of negative training records
increases, the engine gets more and more sceptical and asks to review
even some records labelled as positive in the initial labelling at the
beginning of session 1. This behaviour can be useful to spot
classification errors and inconsistencies. Considering both sessions,
1333 records were reviewed and 107 (8.03%) were found.

Again, the evaluation of the relative importance of the terms showed
that the engine was quite capable of internalizing the concepts behind
the research topic. A subsample of these terms is reported in Table 2 of
Suppl. Mat. S2.

### Hyperparameter selection and performance evaluation

<!-- develop more in the methods, the data is not a random sample and it's ordered so performance evaluation needs to take this into account. also note that hyperparameter selection is necessary since even if bayesian methods are robust, the other parameters outside it are not-->

As described in the methods, the selection of hyperparameters was
achieved via evaluation of sensibility and efficiency through a grid
search on a subset of 1200 completely manually labelled records
(validation set). The best set of parameters suggested an initial input
of 250 labelled records with 20x positive matches oversampling, an
averaged ensemble of 10 models, no bootstrapping and an uncertainty zone
defined by the 98% predictive interval. On the validation set, this
combination of parameters reached a sensitivity of 98.8% (81 / 82
positive matches found) and efficiency of 61.5% (462 / 1200 records
evaluated). A summary of the results of the grid search is reported in
Table 3 in Suppl. Mat. S2.

To evaluate the theoretical performance of the engine on the full
datasets (i.e., session 1 and session 2 data), a Bayesian logistic model
was trained on each session dataset to predict the label of the records
from the probability estimated by the engine (see methods for details).
The performance of such simple models is quite high (Bayesian R2: 98.1%
\[97.4%, 98.3%\] for session 1 and 98.2% \[97.6%, 98.3%\] for session 2)
and the median of their cumulative predictive distribution matches quite
well the actual number of cumulative positive records found. The
predicted cumulative number of positive matches was used to evaluate the
performance in the non-reviewed records (Table 3).  

Figure 1 shows the actual and predicted (from the logistic model)
cumulative number of positive matches, ordered by the initial simple
ordering query. As confirmed by the high efficiency values reported in
Table 3, it is striking how many more records would need to be evaluated
manually to find all positive matches without using a smart search tool.
The engine was able to find matches even close to the end of the
heuristically ordered list of records. Specifically, in session 1 we
observe an expected total number of positives of 101 \[101, 108\] for an
estimated sensitivity of 100% \[93.5%, 100%\] and efficiency of 95.7%
\[95.3%, 95.7%\].  
In session 2 we observed a drop in the expected sensitivity, especially
in the lower margin (97.3% \[73.8%, 100%\]), due to the fact that as the
number of records grows very large, even a small probability can
translate, in the worst scenario, into a relevant number of predicted
positive matches (145 in this case). To ascertain that no evident
positives were missed, we evaluated 100 more records between the
unreviewed ones with the highest median predicted probability produced
by the engine and found no actual positive matches.

| Indicator                          | Session 1              | Session 2              |
|:-----------------------------------|:-----------------------|:-----------------------|
| Tot. records                       | 17755                  | 98371                  |
| N. reviewed records (% over total) | 761 (4.29%)            | 1316 (1.34%)           |
| Expected efficiency \[PrI\]        | 95.7% \[95.3%, 95.7%\] | 98.6% \[98.2%, 98.7%\] |
| N. positive matches (% over total) | 101 (0.57%)            | 107 (0.11%)            |
| Predicted positive matches \[PrI\] | 101 \[101, 108\]       | 110 \[107, 145\]       |
| Expected sensitivity \[PrI\]       | 100% \[93.5%, 100%\]   | 97.3% \[73.8%, 100%\]  |
| Simple Model R^2 \[PrI\]           | 98.1% \[97.4%, 98.3%\] | 98.2% \[97.6%, 98.3%\] |

Table 3. Estimated performance summary. For each session, the number of
reviewed records and the percentage over the total provide an idea of
the work saved against manually labelling all retrieved records. Using a
simple logistic model to predict a positive match from the probabilities
outputted by the engine, the predictive distribution of the cumulative
number of positive matches was computed and used to estimate the
sensitivity and the efficiency of the engine for each session. Finally
the Bayesian R^2 of the logistic models is reported. \[PrI\] represents
the 90% Predictive Interval.

![Figure 1. 90% Predictive distribution of the cumulative number of
positive matches estimated by the logistic Bayesian models applied to
the engine output. The distribution is depicted by the shaded area. The
distribution is cut at the level of the observed cumulative distribution
of positive matches (red dots), since there cannot be false positive in
the dataset and predicted value below this line are not
possible.](Manuscript_Results_files/figure-gfm/performance%20plot-1.png)
